Automate
There are several ways to automate your work in Photopea.

Actions - record your work as a sequence of steps, apply these steps later
Scripts - write a script (program code), which can process the document
Variables - define several variables. Then, give Photopea a spreadsheet with different values for each variable, to produce different versions of your work

Actions
Sometimes, we need to automate image editing. We can record our work as an action and apply it to other documents later.

Actions Panel
Actions are managed through the Actions panel. It can be displayed by pressing Window - Actions. Here we see the structure of current actions in the middle. We can manipulate with actions using the buttons at the bottom of the panel.


There is a strict structure of actions. Basic units are Action Sets (which have a Folder icon). An Action Set contains Actions (which have only an arrow). Each Action may contain Steps (which have a checkmark on the left).

You can click on Action Sets, Actions, or Steps, to select them. Use the buttons at the bottom to modify the structure.

Record - start recording your work (as Steps) into a selected action. Press it again to stop recording.
Apply - apply an action to the current document
New Action Set
New Action
Delete - delete a selected Action Set, an Action or a Step
Export - export a selected Action Set as an .ATN file
ATN files
Photopea can process (load and save) actions inside ATN files. These files are used by Adobe Photoshop and probably other software.

Each ATN file contains exactly one Action Set. Press File - Open, to load the ATN file into Photopea. Press the Export button (in the Actions panel) to export the current Action Set as an ATN file.

Variables
Imagine a following task: we want to make a PNG image for each country of the world. The image should include the name of the country, the flag, some basic info, and a silhouette of South America, if the country is in South America.

We would make a document with several layers for a specific country, e.g. for Brazil. After exporting a PNG, we would replace the flag, replace texts, and export a new PNG. Each image would take us 10 - 20 seconds to make.


Define Variables
With Variables, we can modify these three features of a layer:

visibility - should the layer be visible?
text content - a text content for that layer
pixel content - a name of a file, which will replace pixels of a layer
We can attach a variable to each of these features (so up to three variables per layer). Then, we simply give Photopea a spreedsheet (a table) with data, that should be used for each variable. Let's look at our previous example.


We have a document with five layers. Let's make variables for the first four layers.

1st layer text: CName (country name)
2nd layer text: About (info about that country)
3rd layer pixels: Flag-image (image with a flag)
4th layer visibility: IsSA (is in South America)
Now, let's give Photopea the following spreadsheet with data for each variable.


At the beginning, we only had a document with layers, and a table with data. A variable is a link between a layer and a specific column in our table. E.g. a layer with brown text is linked to the first column of a table by a variable "CName", etc.

Now, a single click gives us these five PNG files:


Variables in Photopea
Press Image - Variables. This feature has three parts: Variables, Data Sets and Export as.


In Variables, select a layer from the list of layers. Then, you can enable up to three variables (for the visibility, text content, pixel content), and enter variable names.

In Data Sets, load a specific spreadsheet from your computer (we support the CSV format, which can be exported from MS Excel, etc.). If you are replacing pixel content, click "Source images" and select files from your computer (file names should be the same as in your spreadsheet).

The Export as lets you export images (according to your current Variables and Data Sets). Choose a format (and additional export parameters), and press "Export" to get a ZIP archive with exported images.

Click OK to save the settings. These settings (of Variables and Data Sets) are a part of your document (are stored in a PSD file), but without Source images (you need to load Source images before each export).